Overview
========

A role-based access control privilege reporting tool is required to help administrators define
permissions in a large organization. Permissions are defined as strings assigned to Roles that grant Users
privilege to perform a specific task on a resource. Some of the questions administrators need to answer are:

    "What are dave's permissions?"
    "Who can reboot this host?"
    "What can the admin group do?"
    "Can dave write to this directory?"

ASSUMPTIONS

Roles, Permissions and Users are assumed to be strings. Permission strings must be additive and positive. 

Privilege Command Line
======================

NAME

    privilege - generates a report of from three input files

SYNOPSIS

    python privilege [...] 

OPTIONS

   -interactive enters a command shell for editing the data using the add, create, delete, read, write commands

DESCRIPTION

    Three input files are read in CSV format in the working directory: users.txt, roles.txt and, permissions.txt.

        1. users.txt contains the User-ID, first_name, last_name
        2. roles.txt contains the Role, User-IDs,,,
        3. permissions.txt contains the Role, Permissions,,,

    The program will report consistency errors in the input files.
    Joining the input data produces six table reports that are printed.

        1. Users Permissions
        2. Permission Users
        3. User Roles
        4. Role Users
        5. Role Permissions
        6. Permission Roles
    
    These tables list all users. Reports focused on a single users are also be printed.
    
    

Development plans
=================
A python 2.7 command line and a Django 1.11 implementation will explore alternate solutions. Django's support for interactive presentation will allow larger data sets to be reduced for display although the initial version will be static. Problems and solutions will be identified in each version and addressed in later releases. 

Command Line functions

These functions have been identified from feedback.
- Add output file and console log
- Add support for non csv input format
- Investigate using a database

Estimates: 4 hr ea.

Django functions

These features can chart the progress of the GUI. 
- load static, dynamic data and display 
- Join data tables for display
- Join data in UI model and 1st view
- Develop the equivelent of six reports on this data 
- Develop method to reduce the report. (For example see: "User reports" format) 

Estimates: 2 days ea. 10 days total. 

Future Development 
==================
These features have been gathered from feedback from the inital version.
- Use data from genisys users and roles  Estimate: 1 day.
- Explore structure to the roles and permission strings Estimate: 2 days.
  Roles and permissions can make use a structure for example: "HOST:SERVICE:API:permission" or "PARENT:CHILD".
- Add a way to filter inputs. Estimate: 1 day.
- Add role/group descriptions. Estimate: 1 day.
  In a large set of Roles or Permissions, a description could help users understand the names.
- Have Django edit and save the data. Estimate: 3 days.


Example 
======

Example use-case of reports generated by Version 1 command line. The GUI will present a similar report.

INPUT

    1. users.txt:

        100, Mel, Martin
        200, Frank, Fisher
        300, Sally, Smith

    2. roles.txt:

        ops, 300
        user, 100, 200, 300
        admin, 100

    3. permissions.txt:

        user, read
        ops, read, write
        admin, read, write, execute

OUTPUT

    ====== User Permissions
    100 Mel Martin               : execute read write
    200 Frank Fisher             : read
    300 Sally Smith              : read write
    ====== Permission Users
    execute          : 100
    read             : 100 200 300
    write            : 100 300
    ====== User Roles
    100 Mel Martin               : admin user
    200 Frank Fisher             : user
    300 Sally Smith              : ops user
    ====== Role Users
    admin            : 100
    ops              : 300
    user             : 100 200 300
    ====== Role Permissions
    admin            : execute read write
    ops              : read write
    user             : read
    ====== Permission Roles
    execute          : admin
    read             : admin ops user
    write            : admin ops

    ============== User reports:
    100 Mel Martin          
        execute          : admin
        read             : admin user
        write            : admin
    200 Frank Fisher       
        read             : user
    300 Sally Smith        
        read             : ops user
        write            : ops

  
History
=======
In version 0:
- Individual permissions were supported, however, that was removed.
- ID's were required to be numbers, however that was removed.
